Kwangtung. Foshan. The birthplace of Chinese martial arts.
It is now renowned as a region where the
cultural exchange of martial arts takes place.
1935 - Foshan. Dojo Street.
Another new school to compete with.
Okay. let's practice... Come on. now!
One...
Two...
Sir. someone is here to see you.
And you are?
I am Master Liao of the
'Liao Fist' school.
I just opened a dojo in town.
Congratulations.
I heard that your Wing
Chun style is very good.
I came today.
hoping to exchange some pointers?
Could we possibly do this another day?
Now's not a great time.
Well. since I'm already here...
Maybe just some quick sparring?
It won't take long.
We can close the doors.
Win or lose. nobody will know.
It's not about that...
I was just sitting down to dinner!
That's fine. I'm happy to wait.
Master Liao. have you eaten?
Come. join us.
Cigarette?
Oh. no thanks.
How was your meal?
Great. great.
That's good.
I'll be very quick.
Wang. leave the table.
Would you mind closing the doors?
Shall we...
Ready?
Ready.
- You okay?
- I'm fine. I'm fine.
Let's continue.
Ok then.
Hit.
Big hit.
Thanks for the demonstration.
Master Liao.
- Thanks for that. I've learnt a lot.
- Same here. same here.
Err. today's closed door sparring...
Don't worry. it's between you and I.
Thank you very much. I'll go now.
Ok. take care then.
You can see yourself out.
Master Ip's "Heavenly tower strike"
was amazing.
Master Liao didn't stand a chance!
Isn't that a Tai Chi Quan move?
I thought Master Ip practiced Wing Chun?
Whatever! Anyway... he just flung
him across the room with one hand!
But Master Liao still
wouldn't give in...
So Master Ip continued
and beat him to a pulp.
He was really amazing!
Here are the tea leaves you
ordered last week. Mrs. Wong.
Thank you.
- Good bye.
- Farewell.
- Goodbye
- Goodbye. see you next time.
Uncle Ping. who put this here?
Your younger brother.
I thought Master Liao's kung
fu was supposed to be good?
He didn't even stand a chance!
He was completely outclassed!
We both have a share
in Dad's teahouse.
But he's always fooling around...
Tell that asshole to take
care of the customers!
- Morning. Lin.
- Brother Man.
Morning. Master lp.
- Is Quan around?
- He's waiting for you upstairs.
Quan. have you been waiting long?
You're always late!
I was busy.
Busy with what?
It's always the same with you.
Eat. drink and kung fu...
What's to be busy about?
This tea is quite fragrant.
Hey. you listening?
Let's order some food.
I've got something to discuss.
Let's eat first. then talk...
Here you go. fresh from the kitchen!
I heard you fought Master Liao
and completely outclassed him?
Who told you that?
My younger brother.
If only I'd known.
I just asked to join Master Liao's dojo!
You've asked every Master
in town to be your teacher.
So. Brother Man... is it true then?
Please. we have something to discuss.
Sorry. I'll leave you to it.
- Master!
- Morning.
Master. someone said you
were beaten by Ip Man!
- Everyone in town is talking about it!
- Rubbish. who's been saying this?
Sha Dan Yuan from the teahouse.
Prices in Foshan are
rising every day.
What about it?
Well. Foshan's economy is booming...
Everyone has expendable income.
And?
Think... what's one of life's necessities?
Clothes. right?
In future.
the demand for fabric will be huge.
That's why I want to set
up a cotton factory.
to be the primary supplier.
I'd like you to be my partner.
I'm not a business man. Quan.
This is a great prospect.
I'm sure it is.
Who's Sha Dan Yuan?
I want a little chat!
I am.
So you're the one spreading
rumors about me?
- I'm going to teach you a lesson!
- Master. Master!
He's my younger brother.
Let's all calm down.
Don't get angry. Master.
Well. your brother is spreading
lies and ruining my reputation!
He said I lost to Ip Man in a fight!
Now. how can I hold my
head up in Dojo Street?
How will I attract new
students to my dojo?
Apologize now!
I was just saying what I saw!
- You're full of shit!
- Master. Master!
Brother Man is just upstairs.
Go get him. if you have the balls?!
Maybe I'll get him!
Master. relax... relax.
Master. Master. Master...
Don't get angry. Master.
Master Ip. tell them it's true!
Master. Master!
Tell them how you beat
Master Liao in a fight!
Brother Man.
you must clear my name.
Still telling lies...
and troubling Brother Man!?
I didn't lie!
I was getting my kite from a
tree and saw through the window.
Oh. what a coincidence your
kite landed outside the window.
What a coincidence you saw
the two of them fighting.
and coincidentally.
you saw right till the end?
That's a lot of coincidences!
Yes. it's all a coincidence.
Even if it was true.
you can't just tell everyone!
There are some things one can't admit.
- If it's true. one should admit it!
- But then one would lose face!
"Lose face"
What the hell does that mean?!
That's what it means!
Lin. no need to be like this.
What's everyone laughing at!?
What's going on!?
- Captain... its just a small misunderstanding.
- About what?
- Thanks everyone...
- No one leaves!
- Honestly. it's nothing.
- All of you listen to me...
Anyone caught disobeying the law or causing
trouble will be arrested immediately!
Officer. I'm not causing trouble.
someone's trying to ruin my reputation.
I am here for justice.
Justice?
I'm the justice around here!
You're all wasting your lives.
fighting every day.
What era is it now?
Still using hand-to-hand combat?
We fight with weapons now. see...
Gun! Gun! You see?!
Officer Li...
We practitioners of martial arts have lots
of energy and sometimes may talk loudly.
But being loud.
doesn't mean we have no manners.
We're all law-abiding citizens here...
No need to draw your gun
for every small matter.
I'm sure you agree.
Lin. please take care of Officer Li.
Put it on my tab.
Certainly.
Officer Li. this way please.
- What the hell are you all looking at?
- Please return to your tables.
Officer Li. please
Master Liao.
Take care.
What are you worried about?
I'm really not suited for business...
but take this to help
you get started.
Pay me back when
you make a profit.
It may take a while
before I can repay you.
That's fine.
Do me one more favor?
Take on my son as a student?
There are so many Masters in Dojo Street.
Why not ask one of them?
They're not as good as you.
Sure they are.
- Master Ip.
- Yes. Lin?
Brother Quan.
Brother Man.
I've learned a new technique.
Can you help me test it?
Have you found your
younger brother yet?
Don't worry about him.
Once he's out of money. he'll be back.
Ready?
Dad. did Uncle Man agree?
I'm working on it.
Wow. your drawings are so good!
Let's see this new move then!
Master Ip. my teacher says
this move is offense
and defense all in one.
Attack while defending.
Defend while attacking.
Aren't they the same?
You wouldn't understand kid.
Move back.
Here I come.
That move attacks the
mid-section out of defense.
Stop reciting theory
and hit your target.
Mom. I'm done with my drawing.
Very nice. sweetheart.
Go show it to Daddy.
Okay.
Disperse while hitting.
Exactly. my last move was...
Daddy. look?
Daddy's busy son...
- Understand?
- I don't think so.
- Try again later?
- Let's do it now.
Daddy won't look!
- There it is.
- What?
Disperse while hitting.
Master. one more time.
I didn't see clearly!
See! See! What's to see!?
You all hang around here every day!
Get lost!
What now?
Sorry Ma'am.
Goodbye. Mrs. Ip.
I wasn't referring to you!
I know. there're things to
take care of at the factory.
Yeow.
I gotta go. Uncle Ip.
Ok. see you next time.
Take care.
If you're upset about
something. tell me.
No need to lose your temper.
Okay. Take a look at
your son's drawings.
Show more concern for him!
And don't stay out all
day with your friends!
Let's go inside. okay?
Good boy.
Hey!
Where's Dojo Street?
Dojo Street!
Straight ahead.
One. Two.
Boss. which dojo should
we challenge first?
One. Two.
One. retract.
Brother! Do you teach here?
You want to learn?
Come in. let's talk.
Who's the master here?
I am the master here!
I am Jin Shan Zhao.
I've long admired
Foshan's martial arts.
I came. hoping to exchange
techniques with the Masters here.
Exchange techniques?
Correct!
So you're here to challenge then!?
Yes I am!
Okay...
Everyone stand aside.
Watch your Master teach this
country bumpkin a lesson!
C'mon move back. move back!
Someone's challenging the dojos.
What going on?
Watch and learn!
Boss. you're the best!
Where is your Master?
Over here!
You really wanted to hurt me. huh!?
Our Master is not here!
What's with the weather today?
It's blowing hot and cold.
Let me.
What are you drawing. son?
He's not talking to you.
You should spend some
time with him today.
Okay.
Lin. here so early?
Yes. I know.
Ma'am. I'm not here to fight.
Just a few words and I'll be off.
What is it?
A group of men are going around
challenging all the dojos!
Their kung fu is really good and
they're beating all the masters.
You should go check it out.
They're that good?
Oh yeah.
Thank you. Ma'am. goodbye.
Come on. Master Liao.
We're depending on you. Master Liao.
Damn it!
Not one of these Foshan
schools can fight!
I thought the Masters in
Foshan would be tough.
but they're all pussies!
The weaklings can't
even take one blow.
Looks like we were
worried for nothing.
Not one of them can fight.
We're gonna get rich for sure.
Brothers. we've got to
beat every Master here.
Then we can open our own school
and everyone will want to join.
We'll be number one in Foshan.
Country bumpkins!
You haven't had a real challenge yet.
Beat our best Master.
then you can talk!
Who's the best then?
Ip Man. of course!
Let's go...
Come! Come!
Watch us beat Ip Man!
Daddy. there's lots of people outside!
Master Ip. they...
Are you Ip Man?
I am Jin Shan Zhao.
I've long admired Foshan's...
I understand. Master Jin.
I understand.
You've come here because you
want to challenge me. right?
That's right!
We're opening a dojo in Foshan
to show how much better we are!
You want to open a dojo?
You don't have to fight me to do that!
You just have to find a good location.
Now. please leave.
Wang. take the boy to his room.
Ip Man.
Don't try to get out of this.
Are you scared of me?
Always fighting!
Does my house look like a dojo?!
You can't come in here and fight!
Get out!
You heard her. I won't fight you.
Now please leave immediately.
I heard that Wing Chun was
developed by a woman.
It must be very suitable for you.
You're afraid of your wife?
No man should be afraid of his wife.
But he should always respect her.
Don't worry. Mrs. Ip.
I won't beat him to death.
If you're afraid he'll lose...
I'll only use one hand.
If that's not enough.
I'll use neither!
Master Ip. fight!
Foshan is really disappointing!
- I can't believe it!
- Shut up!
Don't break anything.
Make way. Make way.
Make way.
What is this?
You came at the right time.
Officer Li.
This room is small.
with many antiques.
Please ask the
spectators to leave.
You must win back our reputation.
Everyone out! Quickly!
Now. Move. move.
Out! Out!
Wing Chun. Ip Man.
I'm really interested to see.
how a man uses a woman's
martial arts style.
A good style does not
depend on sex or age.
So when you meet your opponent.
they wont immediately know how to attack you.
Ready?
I'll pay!
Yeah. you will!
Daddy. mommy says if
you won't attack.
everything in the
house will be broken.
Okay.
Little shit.
Now you've done it!
Boss!
Boss! Boss. Boss!
Are you all right. Master Jin?
I'm fine!
So. Master Jin...
What do you think of my kung fu style?
You smart-ass.
So. my style had problems
with your Wing Chun.
Wrong.
The problem does not lie within your style.
It lies within you.
Who lost and who won?
No need to ask. look at his face.
It's obvious.
Get lost!
Master Ip!
Good show. great work!
You've saved Foshan's reputation.
It was luck. just luck.
You are truly the jewel of Kwangtung.
Thank you.
These just came in.
- Mr. Ip. take these for your wife.
- Thank you.
How much?
No charge. Master Ip.
You've brought glory and honor to Foshan.
- I can't take your money!
- Nonsense. I couldn't.
- Really. there's no need to pay.
- I insist.
I couldn't possibly.
- Master Ip. take some fruit.
- You're too kind. I can't
- For your family. please.
- Thank you.
Please come again. Goodbye.
- Little one. here's a toy for you.
- Wow. say thanks.
- Thank you.
- My pleasure.
Thank you.
Master Ip. how are you?
Hello. good to see you.
- That one's nice.
- This is the best in our shop.
It would be my honor if you
took this for your home.
You're too kind.
What's going on?
Uncle Man. Auntie.
You are so sly.
If you wanted to open a dojo.
you should have told me.
Who said I wanted to open a dojo?
Everyone in Foshan knows about it.
Everyone. except me.
Uncle Man. let me help you.
Master Ip. how are you?
- Hey buddy.
- So it's you spreading the rumors?
You better fix this mess.
Here. Run along.
So listen.
Yeow must be your first student.
Again with this?
You know me Quan.
I'll never take on students.
Quiet!
We must show Master Ip how grateful we are.
Repeat after me...
Master Ip. Master Ip.
July 7th. 1937:
The Marco Polo Bridge Incident occurred.
Japan invades China. descending the country into turmoil.
Rampant starvation sweeps across the country.\N\N\N\N
October 1938:
Foshan is seized.
Much of its infrastructure is destroyed by the Japanese.
From a population of 300 thousand.
Foshan is now left with 70 thousand inhabitants.
Ip Man's residence is taken as a headquarters by the Japanese.
With nowhere to go for Ip Man and his family.
life becomes very difficult...
Honey. I'm going out for a while.
I'll be back soon.
Wait...
It's cold out. Wear your coat.
Hurry up. I'm on this side
and you're on that side.
Son. be careful.
Don't hurt anyone.
Master Ip. I gave you a little extra.
Thank you.
Don't push. one by one...
Next!
Once you have your allocation.
leave immediately.
One at a time please!
This factory might be old.
but it does the job.
Foshan is in a terrible state.
You left already.
Why did you come back?
If I didn't.
how would the workers survive?
Anyway. all my money's invested here.
I can't pay you back right now.
No need.
If you hadn't said anything.
I'd have forgotten.
Then I'll consider you
as a shareholder.
The money you put up.
equates to a 10% share.
Honestly. there's no need.
You know. I could do with an
extra pair of hands here...
Uncle Man.
- Yeow.
- You're here to help? Great!
With you to lead us.
we're bound to succeed.
I could also watch you
practice Wing Chun.
I'll go organize an extra meal.
The factory's about to stop for lunch.
Yes. join us
No need.
I still have some errands.
Maybe next time.
Thanks anyway.
Dad. why didn't you
try and convince him?
He's a very proud man. son.
Daddy. didn't you used to
practice martial arts?
Why don't you practice anymore?
If I use too much energy.
I'll get hungry.
That's why I stopped. ok?
I got it. From now on.
I won't play outside.
You'll only stop playing today.
Finish eating.
Eat up.
I'm sorry.
this porridge isn't great...
But you've got to eat something.
Careful. it's hot.
How much rice is left in the house?
Don't worry about that.
We've got no valuables left to pawn.
Your husband's not an old man yet.
I'll get a job.
We'll be fine.
Is anyone hiring?
I'm sure I can find something.
I'll ask around tomorrow. now eat up.
We have more than enough staff.
We're not hiring. sorry.
Hi. are you looking for workers?
No.
Sorry to trouble you.
Pick me. pick me!
You. you and you. Come up.
Please. pick me!
Ip Man. you're looking for a job?
Come. come.
Thank you.
Brother Man.
Shame to see such a
nice suit being ruined.
I didn't know I'd be
shoveling coal this morning.
Master Ip. how are you?
How are you?
So many of the old masters are here!
The boss here used
to practice kung fu.
So he likes to employ
other martial artists.
Do you still practice?
Who has the time and energy
to practice these days?
- Let's sit over there.
- Okay.
I'm starting to get full.
Help me eat some?
Take it.
How's your wife and son doing?
They're fine. Thank you.
Did your younger brother ever turn up?
I haven't seen him since
that day with Master Liao.
I don't know if he's still alive.
I didn't even get a
chance to apologize.
You lose something?
A tin box.
What kind of tin box?
Japanese soldiers!
Everyone!
This is Colonel Chuodeng.
The Colonel admires Chinese kung fu.
He knows Foshan is famous
for its martial arts.
He would like volunteers
to spar with his soldiers.
Would anyone like to go?
Anyone want to go?
Master?
You only want us to be
their punching bags.
Well. count me out!
Idiot!
If you win. there's a bag
of rice in it for you.
Anyone who wins.
will be awarded a bag of rice.
I'll go.
Lin. don't do it.
- I'll go.
- I'll go too.
No. they've taken all our rice.
This is our chance to get some back!
Wait. wait.
Good luck.
Find me that tin box. ok?
Hey!
It's alright. Come.
- Be careful.
- Come over and lineup.
Go. go. go...
Anything else?
- No. Let's go.
- Yes.
Master?
General.
Thank you. Sir.
Good work. good work.
Take them down!
I want to have a go.
They're not at your level.
General Sanpo.
It'll be like a lesson in
Japanese martial arts.
Find me three men.
Even if they lose.
they'll still get a bag of rice.
Yes.
Alright now.
don't say I never help you guys.
I've arranged for General
Sanpo to fight three of you.
Win or lose.
you'll still get a bag of rice.
Forget the rice.
I just want to teach them a lesson!
Who wants in?
- I do! I do!
- Pick me!
Let go of me!
Lin. you and you.
The three of you.
Okay!
You're coughing up blood. Give up!
We've lost!
General. they've admitted defeat.
Idiot! Do you really want to die?
You asshole!
Lin! Are you ok?!
Lin! Lin!
You're tired today?
Pouring coal is not tiring.
I saw Lin today.
Really? How is he?
He's ok.
I never thought I'd see him again.
- Master Li. Master Hong.
- Oh. hi Master Ip.
Have you seen Lin?
Lin? No. I haven't seen him.
C'mon. let's eat.
Many people received
bags of rice yesterday.
General Sanpo was very satisfied.
So. who wants to fight today?
Anyone?
Li Chian.
Where is Lin?
Anyone at all?
I'm asking you. Where's Lin?
I don't know.
You don't know?
You took him with you yesterday.
Anyone want to fight?
If you win. you get a bag of rice.
I'll go.
Master Ip's going... me too.
I'll go too.
I want to have a good
fight with the Japanese.
Will there be anything else sir?
No. Let's go.
Thank you.
May I continue and fight 3 more men?
He said he wants to
fight three more men.
I'm done. I'm done.
Why did they shoot him?
Li Chian! Why did they shoot him?!
Who told you to shoot?
He lost the fight. but still had
the gall to try and take the rice.
So. I wanted to teach him a lesson.
This is a place for martial arts only!
Don't ever fire your
weapon in here again!
Understood. General.
Ok. I'll now arrange for the
next fight to take place.
Hey!
Continue!
Anyone else still want to fight?
Me!
Li Chian. open the door!
- Master...
- Open the door!
Please tell me.
Is that what happened to Lin?
Open the door!
Master...
Open the door please.
I want to challenge ten men!
That's crazy! Don't do this.
I want to fight ten men!
He said he wants to challenge ten men.
Ten?
Yes.
I'd like to see that.
Listen up!
Unit 1. Unit 3. Unit 5.
Begin!
Be careful.
Stand down!
Enjoy your rice.
He says to enjoy the rice.
I didn't come here for the rice!
He said. maybe next time.
Hey!
What's your name?
He wants to know your name.
I am simply a Chinese man.
He is Ip Man.
You have to be careful from now on.
I don't know what Sanpo will do.
Traitor!
Why am I a traitor?
I'm not responsible for their deaths!
I'm only a translator.
I've got to eat! I need to eat.
Need to eat?
You watch your people being killed!
Where's your dignity?!
I guess I have none!
Not like you. you're perfect. right?
If you're so noble.
why don't you go beat them!
Beat as many as you can!
I'm a translator. not a traitor!
I'm a Chinese man too!
I'm back.
Daddy!
Hi honey.
Did you behave today?
Yeah.
Good boy.
How was your day?
I'm gonna go wash up.
Thank you.
I feel so useless.
I can't do anything.
I only know martial arts.
What good is that?
This world...
can be really punishing.
I just feel so useless.
I don't care about the outside world.
All I know is that I'm
happy right now...
Here. together with our son.
and if we can get through this.
we can get through anything.
You're right.
We just need to stick together.
Everybody out!
Everyone out. get out!
Move aside!
Move to the side of the road!
Who's the boss here? Show yourself!
I am.
I've just stolen your goods.
and now I want to sell them back to you.
Any objections?
There's no money here.
Don't hit my father!
Wing Chun!?
- Damn it! Wing Chun!
- Don't hit him!
Where's the money?
- I don't-
- You do!
I'll beat you until you find some.
This factory just opened.
No money's been generated yet.
Uncle Man! Uncle Man!
Come quick. it's Dad!
They're going to kill him!
- What is it. Yeow?
- Auntie!
I'll go check it out.
Listen. I'm a very reasonable man.
If you don't have any money yet.
I'll give you some more time.
I'll hold the goods till then.
Master Ip.
Dad. are you ok?
I'm fine. Go help Uncle Foo.
How can I help?
I always thought kung fu was
a bit of a waste of time.
Now I know it can be pretty useful.
If I knew before.
I'd have asked you for some pointers.
Maybe I could've
blocked a few punches.
Uncle Man. stay and
teach us some kung fu?
So we can protect ourselves
from those thugs.
Master Ip.
Your kung fu is renowned.
Please teach us.
Please Master Ip. Teach us.
Teach us. please.
Please Master Ip.
Look. I'm in the cotton business.
I don't know much outside of that.
I can't protect them...
but you can.
Back when times were peaceful.
you said you didn't want to teach.
Now. everything is falling apart.
Don't you think you
need to do something?
You know Quan...
I never wanted to teach.
But considering what's happened...
I can't wait to!
Uncle Man.
can I be your first student?
Push higher. daddy!
Higher? Ok...
Why didn't Ip Man ever return?
I… I don't know.
Find him!
I have no idea where he is.
I don't know how to find him.
Foshan's not that big.
How hard could it be!?
Foshan's really quite big.
No.... please don't!
I really don't know where to find him.
- You useless dog!
- Enough!
Bastard!
Rock. paper. scissors!
- You lost!
- You all ganged up on me.
Hide properly!
10. 9. 8. 7...
Sweety!
- 5. 4. 3. 2. 1.
- That way.
Ready or not. here I come!
Master!
What are you doing here?
Sanpo wants you to go
back and fight him.
Go away.
I can't.
Stop it!
Stop it! What do you want?
What do you want?!
How pretty!
Shit!
Let's go. It's not safe here now.
Let's get out of here!
Li Chian!
You fucking Chinese dog!
How is it possible
that Ip Man escaped?
I'm sorry!
Even Colonel Chuodeng
couldn't bring him in.
It was really beyond me to stop him.
- I'm sorry.
- Shut up!
Fucking useless!
Send out the order...
Smoke Ip Man out of his hole.
Yes. Sir.
Sisters.
Come.
Brother. come and eat.
How is Master Ip?
Don't worry. they're all fine.
Master.
Coming.
Mrs. Ip.
These should fit you.
How is everything?
Are you comfortable in here?
It's fine.
Good then.
I'll call you when it's time to eat.
Li Chian.
I'm fine.
I really don't know what to say.
Thank you.
No problem.
We'll leave Foshan
as soon as possible.
Quan is finding a way out for us.
Where will we go?
Hong Kong.
Anywhere is fine.
I have some friends in Hong Kong.
If there are any problems...
What could happen?
Everything will be fine.
How's it going today…?
They're here again. Quick. run!
They're back! They're back.!
Have you got my money?
We won't give you a cent!
What did you say?
We're not afraid. You can't bully us!
Little shit!
You need some sense beaten into you.
Fine!
Beat the shit out of
anyone that resists!
Stop fighting!
No wonder you're resisting.
you've got a bodyguard!
I came to Foshan to open a dojo
and you people insulted me.
Now. you're messing with me again!
Bastards!
You won’t rest. until I have nothing.
No one forced you
into a life of crime.
Do you know what it's like
to be hungry every day?
Nobody has a full meal these days.
When I first came to Foshan. I said...
I will never go hungry again.
I will never suffer again!
Get him!
Go on!
What are you waiting for? Get him!
Get him!
Go on.
He's too good!
Let's go!
Master. you were so great!
Sha Dan Yuan.
Wait a sec.
Why are you following that guy?
What choice do I have?
Robbing your own people?
I'd rather be the bully
than the bullied.
Do you understand me?
- Your brother asked me to give you...
- Don't mention him to me!
Your brother is dead.
He was killed by the Japanese.
He looked for you everywhere
but couldn't find you.
Whatever path a man takes.
is his own choice.
Master!
That bastard Jin told Sanpo
you were at the factory.
Please don't go back there.
I've gotta run.
Don't go back there!
Get outside. now! Move it!
Where is Ip Man?
Where is he? Speak up!
Don't tell him a thing!
You. come here.
Where is he?
Speak up! Speak! Speak!
Let me try!
Hang on!
I'll think of something!
Move! Speak! Speak!
I am here. I'm Ip Man!
I'm here! I'm here!
Li Chian.
Wait! Please wait!
Please wait!
Li. tell the general.
this has nothing to do with the workers.
Tell him to let them go.
I told you not to come!
Why didn't you listen?
Tell him!
Stop!
He dared to hit me...
Let me execute him?
I've got something in mind for him.
- Li!
- Yes?
From the moment you
resisted the Japanese Army.
you were a dead man.
But I noticed your extraordinary skills.
You could be useful to us.
That's why I'm giving
you one last chance.
Be loyal to the Japanese
Imperial Army...
Teach them your Chinese kung fu...
Then. I might consider letting you live.
He says he admires your skills.
He wants you to teach
kung fu to the Japanese.
I won't teach Japanese!
You want to see me fight?
I'll give you a lesson
you won’t forget!
He says. he will consider
being an instructor.
but he'd like to
spar with you first.
Take him to the barracks.
Let's move!
Quan. take my family and
get them out of Foshan.
General. do you really
want to fight Ip Man?
Of course!
He should be a good challenge.
But. look at him.
He doesn't want to instruct
the Imperial Army.
He has other motives for
wanting to spar with you.
Please don't fight him.
Let me put a bullet in him instead.
He challenged me to a fight...
because he thinks he's better than me.
If I refuse to accept the challenge...
but shoot him instead...
isn't that the same
as admitting defeat?
Fighting a Chinese man...
is not just a matter of
personal honor for you.
it's also the honor of
the Japanese empire.
Are you saying I'll lose?
I'm just being cautious.
I will win with ease. and when I do...
I want the whole of China to know!
Yes. Sir. Sorry. Sir.
The reason I didn't kill you.
and I want you to be an instructor...
is because I admire your
skill in kung fu...
but Chinese martial arts will always
be inferior to that of the Japanese.
Tomorrow.
We will fight in front of everyone.
I will ensure it's a fair fight.
You invaded my country
and killed my people.
Stop being hypocritical.
As you wish.
Let go of me! Let me go back!
- Let go of my mommy...
- I promised Ip...
nothing would happen to you.
It's too dangerous to go back.
I heard a Japanese general's
fighting a Chinese.
- Who is it?
- Ip Man!
Look at this place.
it's all boarded up.
I used to wish he'd stay
home with us more often.
That's why I complained
about his martial arts.
Every time he fought.
I'd lose my temper.
I should have been more supportive.
Now. this may be his last fight.
I’m afraid I won’t see him again.
Why won’t you let me
see him one last time?
Why?
General Sanpo wishes to strengthen
the cultural exchange program.
Today's fight. will be a fair fight.
An exchange of ideas.
And friendship through martial arts.
To realize cross-cultural peace.
Fair fight!? Yeah right!
I don't believe it.
Look at that traitor's face!
I hope the Japanese kill that traitor.
You're right.
Everybody stand back!
No sudden movements!
Here comes Master Ip.
General Miura talked
about a tournament.
But I don't give a damn!
Listen up.
If he wins. I will kill you.
Remember this!
- Tell him!
- Yes.
Please. don't win the fight tomorrow.
If you do. he will kill you.
It's not worth your life.
Martial arts may be
formed from strength...
but Chinese martial arts.
includes many ideals and philosophies.
The virtue of martial
arts is benevolence.
This is what Japan
will never understand.
You use strength. and turn it into
brutal power. to oppress others.
You don't deserve to learn
Chinese martial arts.
Due to Ip Man's resistance in bowing to the Japanese.
the people of China finally began to unite.
With the help of his good friend Quan.
Ip Man and his family escape from Foshan.
August 15th. 1945:
Japan announces its unconditional surrender.
The people of China were finally victorious.
in a war that had lasted 8 years.
1949:
Ip Man started a new chapter in his life.
He moved to Hong Kong.
where he taught his first class of Wing Chun.
1967:
In his later years. Ip Man finally fulfills a long-held wish.
To establish the Wing Chun Athletic Club.
Uniting more people to help spread the Wing Chun style.
Today. Wing Chun is taught all over the world.
It is one of the best known forms of kung fu.
Ip Man's disciples are estimated at well over 2 million.
There are many talented people
among his disciples...
including the most illustrious
action star of all. Bruce Lee.